---
title: "Trump"
slug: "trump"
date: "2017-07-01"
---

**Schadenfreude**: It is pleasure derived from the misfortune of others

Like a lot of people in the world, I too have been obsessing about Trump since he started running for president. I thought after his lost I would forget about him but to my and world’s horror a big portion of Americans voted for him and he became the President of United States!

Suffice to say I absolutely loathe the guy. He is an example of a bully, racist, sexist, narcissist, and more. A look at him and his behavior and you know the guy is not genuine. It is beyond me how a section(not small) of public continue supporting him even now!

I describe my current obsession with Trump as like watching gladiators. You know it's bad, but you just can't take your eyes off it. It's so entertaining, it’s almost like he is on a stage and the world is the audience. He has become one of my favorite topics to read, and every day there seems something interesting is happening.

One of a good way is to follow him is to watch Morning Joe on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDIVi-vBsOEy6jMSt_r_SMj9F5tuqdtKe). Here the hosts gives a very good analysis of the political scene of US, plus there are often very good guests who talk sense. As I write this, Trump has used Twitter to insult the hosts of the show with shameful language. It's very unbecoming of the president to talk this way, but by now we all do not expect much better from him.

As difficult as it is to understand why people would support him there is some good reason why he has become very popular. He is very unconventional, he will say and do things which normally nobody will say/do, this agrees with a lot of people who feel the conventional/established ways have hurt them. He is very good at tapping into the fears of the people. So he will go after Muslims, immigrants, Mexicans etc. He has mastered the art of using Twitter, in some ways, it's because of Twitter he was able to win. He has currently a very strong base who will support him no matter what he says or does. It’s incredible how much he has got away with so far. Every time a controversy happens and you think he will not recover but he seems to bounce back. What will be interesting is to find what is the one thing that eventually brings him down.

I do hope sooner rather than later he does go. Since to hope for him to change his way is foolish, the guy is never changing. He is currently single-handedly destroying many values of America before long he will start to have the real effect on the world itself.
