---
title: "Look up"
slug: "look-up"
date: "2018-03-01"
---

Of late I have noticed that whenever I am traveling I spent a lot of time staring at my mobile. This is probably true for most people these days who have a smartphone. Whenever a moment arrives that you are not doing anything, your automatic tendency is to fetch your phone and start going through the messages, social sites, games etc. One of the things I enjoy to do is travel, even for short trip as I like to see new things. When you look out of the window of the vehicle even for the same journey there is always something new and interesting happening. So when I started to stick to my phone longer and longer, it was a cause of some alarm.

The other day when a lift arrived at the ground floor we saw a guy still busy with his phone and did not step out till someone told him to. Obviously later the people around started complaining how the newer generation are completely addicted to their phone these days. We all have noticed that even in a social gathering where people are expected to interact, you will see some just look down and play with their phone.

I agree more and more it seems like this has become an addiction for a lot of people. They just can’t live without their phone even for a short period. There is a term coined for this FOMO (Fear of missing out) “a pervasive apprehension that others might be having rewarding experiences from which one is absent”

I now have put a rule on myself, where I make sure I do not spend too much time on the phone. I call it 50%, so basically if I am on a bus and if it takes 40 minutes to arrive at the destination, I will try and not spend more than 20 minutes on the phone.
