---
title: "Seinfeld"
slug: "seinfeld"
date: "2018-12-27"
---

I love viewing TV/Movies and have many favorites, which I keep rewatching and loving it. Though If you told me to pick one if I ever were to be stuck in an island, and had only one choice, I would take the seasons of Seinfeld. Even now whenever any episode shows on TV, I would watch and enjoy it. The jokes never get old for me, even when I know all of them, all the punchlines, it still makes me laugh. Recently with Amazon prime video subscription, I was able to go through all the seasons of Seinfeld and thoroughly enjoyed all of them.

Seinfeld is one of those rare gems of a show which is perfect in everywhere. It is insanely funny, and the jokes are even funny after so many years. The show’s tagline is “Show about nothing” but the great thing about Seinfeld is it talked about everything and joked about everything. The characters are all very memorable and brilliantly played.

Of course, this might be different for the younger generation. I watched a Youtube video of teenagers, who were shown clips of Seinfeld and was asked about their reactions. Many still found it funny but there were some who says that the jokes not politically correct. These days you have to be careful what you say which is a shame. There are too many judgments made on every single thing. In my opinion, comedy should have the freedom to do what it like, if you do not like a particular routine or a particular comic, you can just ignore it. There is no need to be angry and call for the ban.

I have some references in life, and Seinfeld is one of them, once in a while I would remember a particular quote of it, a particular scenario of how it played out and apply it. There are many quotable quotes, here are some samples I like.

“If you can’t say something bad about a relationship you shouldn’t say anything at all.”

“Jerry, just remember, it's not a lie if you believe it.“

“When you look annoyed all the time, people think that you're busy.”

“We're Not Gay. Not That There's Anything Wrong with That.”

“I want to be the one person who doesn't die with dignity.”

“Festivus for the rest of us.”
