---
title: "China Trip 2025"
slug: "China Trip 2025"
date: "2025-05-03"
---

Last year while I was on a family visit in Canada, we started planning a group trip to China. A China trip has been on my bucket list for a very long time now, so we were all excited and ultimately decided to do it. Firstly we booked a tour agent called Jenny, who was recommended by my sister. She came up with an itinerary after we suggested places we wanted to visit. The advantage of doing it with a travel agent is that they take care of everything, travel, hotel, food, guide. So you do not need to worry about these things. In other countries, we probably would not have needed this service, but in China where the rules are strict and nobody speaks English, I think this is a must for first-time travelers. We planned to go to Beijing, then Xian, then Chongqing, then Zhangjiajie. It was 11 days of a super fun trip. I noted down some highlights.


**Communication**

We knew beforehand there are challenges to communicating in China, firstly I don't know Mandarin and nobody speaks English. Even where we stayed in 4-star hotels, from staff to even machine labels all in Mandarin. So you need to install a translator app. The other issue in China is that most of the apps are blocked by them. The workaround is that I installed LetsVPN, which costs 5 dollars, but works great. So when we are in a hotel or where Wifi is available, with VPN on you can Google, YouTube, and WhatsApp without any issue. The other thing I got was a local sim, which used a service called ChinaUnicomHK. This sim works like a charm, is very fast, and has inbuilt VPN technology, so all apps I need work. I used Google Translate mostly, this works great, mostly I took pictures in Mandarin and translated it. There is even a conversation mode, which kind of works well when the speaker is loud enough and speaks clearly, it can do a live translation of Mandarin to English.


**Great Wall**

We all learned and read about the Great Wall. This was definitely on the bucket list. It's crazy how they did this, another marvel by humans. We had to walk/climb the Great Wall. The idea was to move up from one tower to another, till we reached a high point, where the view was amazing. The way the stairs were made, and the steep nature of the climb, it's not for somebody who is not fit. I reached tower eight, by which time my head was feeling light. At that point, I gave up and sat there for some time. Others went further ahead, but only one reached the top 12th tower.


**Chongqing**

This is a crazy modern city. I have never seen a city lit like this. There is a place from where it seems the whole city seems to be lit with millions of LEDs. It's a view to behold. It's amazing to walk through. I wonder what the electric bill of this city is like! There is so much light I am thinking probably not a great place to stay or work at, it has to be blinding at some point.


**Technology**

China is pretty advanced as a country, I have been to Canada but this surpasses that also. The super fast train running at 300 km/hr, and you don't even feel it inside is really impressive. In our hotel they used a robot to bring you stuff from the ground, it takes the lift, and delivers it to your room. It can carry things like food, and drinks. 

One part that I did not like was the constant surveillance, not only do they scan your face in the airport. They scan it in every city you reach. They also scan it in places you visit. So at any point, these people know where each individual is. This makes me uncomfortable, any country that monitors each citizen that closely, has major trust issues. There are also huge privacy concerns. But I guess Chinese people are used to it. Maybe other countries will do the same, I just don't like this.


**Jenny**

Jenny was the tour agent we booked. She was traveling with us throughout the trip, and doing all the work of organizing travel, hotel, and food. I would say she did excellent work. She also provided us with additional tips along the way, like she bought stuff via AliExpress. That way we bought lots of stuff at a much cheaper rate than the stores. She also has an effervescent personality, always on the move, always positive and smiling. This additionally made the entire trip there a lot of fun.


**Zhangjiajie**

I would say this is by far the best thing about the trip. I absolutely was wowed by the beauty of Zhangjiajie. You have to be there to enjoy the natural beauty. The photos, and videos are great, but you need to be there to appreciate the beauty. Absolutely otherworldly. It starts with a wonderful cable car ride to the top of the mountain. From there you slowly move downwards enjoying the many wonderful views of the amazing Zhangjiajie mountains. I would love to go back and spend more time there.  


**Bonus**

While returning to India we had to take a long transit via Singapore, so we got to spend some time in Singapore also. The airport is out of the world. Two things stood out, there were many more which impressed me. First, in one section they had an Amazon-like setup, lots of trees, and plants, and then in the middle an artificial waterfall. You have to see it to appreciate it. Another relatively smaller one that intrigued me greatly was that they had an installation where hundreds of gold droplets were attached with string. They were placed in a grid formation. Each of these droplets can individually move up and down some 15 feet in length. When all move synchronously they create wonderful patterns, like a wave, like raindrops, etc. It's mesmerizing to watch what they have done with it. As a programmer, I can totally think of ways to program this installation to create so many different art, different random designs.
