---
title: "K-Dramas"
slug: "K-Dramas"
date: "2025-11-07"
---

K-dramas are one of my favourites to watch on streaming platforms. There is so much good content from Korea. In general, I love the sense of humour and the quirky comedy style; it's very different from the Western/Indian stuff. Here are a few K-Dramas I love and would recommend.

**My Mister**
My go-to genre is comedies. This series, which was recommended by my sister, is different. It's a sad drama. I love it so much that even the one plot flaw I see, where the main character is easily able to keep spying on another character, I am OK with. The way they use it, where so much of the emotions come as she listens, spies on him, makes me ignore that loose plot.

The fact that the actress IU is also a singer makes her performance even greater. She is the star of the drama. I am a fan now. She has done an incredible job here, even though she is a shady character; you root for her, and the emotions displayed by her are very strong. The other characters are all great also. The storyline is very unique, which is always a USP. The series playlist is great, also.

**Reply 1988**
This is a very nice and fun watch. It's a simple story of a group of friends, how they grow up together. It's very funny, and a very easy watch. Each character has a great storyline. I love the small stakes here, nothing dramatic, but they were able to capture the small town, a few families' story, so well.

**Guardian: The Lonely and Great God**
The main actor, Gong Yoo, I first watched him in Coffee Prince, one of the first K Drama series I watched many, many years ago. Those times we used to get CDs from friends and family to watch it. He was so young then. He has since become one of the most famous actors in Korea. This is a fantasy series with supernatural elements. The main lead has been dead for centuries, but his spirit is still roaming the Earth. To get out of this curse, he needs help from one particular person. The acting is top-notch by all the main characters in this series. I love the main leads, Gong Yoo and Kim Go Eun. Their chemistry throughout the series is great.

**Hospital Playlist**
This one combines comedy with the drama of a Hospital. There is a lot at stake at every moment, and how the characters navigate them. Here is a group of friends who are all excellent doctors. Each one has its own storyline. It's one of the series that is fun but also makes you think a little about it, which all great hospital dramas do. One of the episodes shows organ donation, it is something which can be very useful for others. It tells us why we should do it.

There are many more I like, like The Squid game(I wrote a whole post about). I can see why Koreans are very popular everywhere.