---
title: "Earbuds"
slug: "Earbuds"
date: "2025-07-14"
---

When I went to Canada last year, one of the gifts I received from a friend was a pair of Earbuds. I have been aware of its usefulness for a long time now, but I never bought one because, firstly, buying a good one would be expensive, and secondly, the thought of losing one, which is a common complaint I often hear, does not seem like a good idea. I do listen to a lot of podcasts and other streaming videos, so over the years I have bought many wired earphones. Since it started to get spoiled/lost after a while, I started to invest in cheaper 500 Rs range ones. Which works perfectly fine. Until I started using the Earbuds, now I am converted.

This is a tech I would not have probably bought myself, I bought my last phone with an earphone jack, which is going out of fashion. It's good I got it for free, so I can try it. I started to use it daily as I started to travel again for work. I immediately loved it. For one the sound quality is pretty good. I also love the seamless nature of how it connects to my phone.
The no wire is great once you get used to it, you never want to go back to the tangled mess of wire. Whenever I take the earbud out it connects to my phone automatically. I also love the tap feature, you just tap to pause, or resume listening.

I love it so much that I now try to introduce it to people who have not tried it. I bought one for my brother as a birthday gift, and we gifted another one to another family member. One issue he does have is that sometimes it falls off his ears. Fortunately for me, this has not been an issue as fear before. It can still happen, but seems pretty secure and fits in my ear.

I was last impressed by a device this much when my brother gifted me a FitBit. I love tech which is simple to use and does the job very well. I think a lot of credit must go to Apple, when they introduced it a long time back, like anything they do, companies immediately started to copy it and we are the beneficiaries. 
